# Residual-attention-based-uncertainty-guided-mean-teacher-model-for-semi-supervised-breast-masses-seg

Breast tumor is the second deadliest disease among women around the world. Earlier tumor diagnosis is extremely important for improving the survival rate. Recent deep-learning techniques proved helpful in the timely diagnosis of various tumors. However, in the case of breast tumors, the characteristics of the tumors, i.e., low visual contrast, unclear boundary, and diversity in shape and size of breast lesions, make it more challenging to design a highly efficient detection system. Additionally, the scarcity of publicly available labeled data is also a major hurdle in the development of highly accurate and robust deep-learning models for breast tumor detection. To overcome these issues, we propose residual-attention-based uncertainty-guided mean teacher framework which incorporates the residual and attention blocks. The residual for optimizing the deep network by enabling the flow of high-level features and attention modules improves the focus of the model by optimizing its weights during the learning process. We further explore the potential of utilizing unlabeled data during the training process by employing the semi-supervised learning (SSL) method. Particularly, the uncertainty-guided mean-teacher student architecture is exploited to demonstrate the potential of incorporating the unlabeled samples during the training of residual attention U-Net model. The proposed SSL framework has been rigorously evaluated on two publicly available labeled datasets, i.e., BUSI and UDIAT datasets. The quantitative as well as qualitative results demonstrate that the proposed framework achieved competitive performance with respect to the previous state-of-the-art techniques and outperform the existing breast ultrasound masses segmentation techniques. Most importantly, the study demonstrates the potential of
incorporating the additional unlabeled data for improving the performance of breast tumor segmentation.



### Datasets
